(1) How are broken divisions to be handled?

(2) Maybe the first thing to notice is that broken divisions are a type of byproduct
arising during interpretation. Composers specify only complete divisions. But differences
between the pattern of divisions within a segment and the duration of the segment
may give rise to broken divisions.

(3) It is the voices within any given segment that may be the bearers of broken divisions
because it is the voices within any given segment that bear divisions, no matter what their type.

(4) Divisions may be left-broken, or right-broken, or both left- and right-broken,
or neither left- nor right-broken.

(5) We can say that one of the things that happens during interpretation is broken duration discovery.

(6) Consider division d. In the case that d is right-broken but not left-broken, 
the duration of d equals the sum m + n, with m and n equal to the 'segment duration' 
of d and the 'right overhang duration' of d, respectively.
In the case the d is left-broken but not right-broken, the duration of d equals the sum l + m,
with l and m equal to the left overhang duration of d and the segment duration of d, respectively.
In the case that d is both left-broken and right-broken, the duration of d equals
the sum l + m + n, with l + n together equalling the 'total overhang duration of d.
And in the case that d is neither left-broken nor right-broken, the duration of d equals m.

(7) Notice that the right overhang duration of right-broken division d in segment Tn 
will exactly equal the segment duration of left-broken divions e in segment Tn+1.
That is, the right overhang duration of d in Tn acts as a type of offset in Tn+1.
How does the right overhang duration of d in Tn act as a type of offset in Tn+1?
By offseting the amount of musical time before which divisions in the corresponding
voice in Tn+1 will begin to calculate.

(8) Discovery is unproblematic: calculate the divisions for whatever voice is current under iteration,
notice whether the rightmost division is right-broken. If so, interpretation has discovered
a broken division.

(9) Then there's the issue of what to record once a broken division has been discovered.
There is also a companion question as to where such information should be recorded.
A reasonable first guess says that the right overhang duration of the broken duration
needs to be recorded somewhere in the context tree. This is important because otherwise
division calculate can not proceed correctly once interpretation advances from Tn to Tn+1.

(10) Does other information need to be recorded upon broken division discovery? Yes.
Interpretation needs to record that d is right-broken. Three options present themselves here.
Either, (a) division d itself may bear some type of is-broken indicator. Or, (b), interpretation may add
an is-right-broken indicator to the generative setting that specified the creation of the
divisions in the first place. Or, (c), interpretation may maintain some type of mapping
data structure that models just such information about broken and nonbroken divisions.
Option (c) seems less good. Maybe it makes sense to proceed with both options (a) and (b) 
since the two are not mutually exclusive.

(11) What is the importance of recording the is-broken status of every duration in Tn?
This matters for the interpretaive passes that follow division determination.
Chief among these is rhythm creation. When notating Tn in isolation, interpretation 
must know which divisions in Tn are broken and which are nonbroken. Likewise, when notating
Tn together with Tn+1, interpretation must know which divisions in both Tn and Tn+1
are broken and which are nonbroken.
